# Millikan's Oil Droplet Experiment
A University, Physics 2nd year experiment which allows students to calculate the elementary electric charge (charge of an electron). This Python file -- Note this file may be renamed appropriately for cmd use -- contain preset constants, calculations and the ability to draw a graph and on top, doesn't require values to be entered individually but extracted from a csv (comma delimited) file. This program is for Python 3.X versions and uses packages: csv, numpy, matplotlib.pyplot and math. The 'Results.csv' file provided is the file on which the author created as part of his work experience on this experiment. As it should be noted that this file does not provide a set of numbers that are exact to this experiment, but a guideline to what should be produced when the experiement is repeated. If you choose to see what the graph and some imporant figures look like, then simply run the code (making sure that the .py and .csv are in the same folder/directory), enter the name of the .csv file (in the case 'Results' should be entered -- no extension is required) and within the console, 2 lines are printed: the xmin and xmax values for the graph; timeList, voltageList and distList (these are values that have been created from the .csv file). Finally a graph will be displayed. This is a curve graph and so the line of best fit will be curved from bottom-left to top-right.
# Entering Values Into A .CSV File
After gathering a set of results (may include repeates, so an average must be made) entering them into the .csv file is fairly straight foward -- Note a .CSV file type comma delimited, does not save formulas so make sure a worksheet file is also saved. Within columns A, B and C, data should be entered in this order: column A - this column should contain all of the time (in seconds) results; column B - this column should contain all of the voltage (in V) results; column C should contain all of the distance (in cm) results -- although this should be a constant, experiments are not carried out the same so to prevent incorrect figures this column exsists. Once all results are entered within these 3 coulmns only (other calculations may be performed elsewhere in the spreadsheet like in 'Results.cvs') and have saved the file within the same folder/directory as the .py file, the file may be named appropriately with the correct file extention '.csv (comma delimited)'.

# Thanks For Reading!

_TheOnePath_
